Another really important topic around arrays and objects has to do with equality checking for equality.
Now we've seen the equality operator strict equality triple equals and double equals.
In this case they both return true.
Now let's talk about how they behave with arrays and objects.
So let's make a variable we'll just call it numbs.
I'm out of creative ideas for now such as numbers and then we'll make another variable called mystery
and it will be an identical looking array.
1 2 3.
What happens when I compare these two.
If I run numbers triple equals mystery we get false.
So they look the same to us.
They contain the exact same values in the exact same order but they are completely different in JavaScript
mind.
And you might think that W equals would solve that but it does not.
This all hinges upon what we talked about earlier with reference types when we have a variable called
Numbers the value of that variable the little space in memory is not storing the array it's simply storing
a reference to this array.
So we can imagine that numbs in memory has some long address to another part of memory where the actual
array is stored.
Remember arrays can be very very large and they don't fit in a single variable the allocated or the
allowed space for a variable.
So instead javascript stores a reference to where that array is.
So when we compare with double equals or triple equals we're comparing these addresses.
So mystery might look the same but it has its own completely unique place in memory.
Let me make these a little more distinct looking.
There we go.
So they are not at all the same.
And this is what's being compared.
So here's a question for you.
How could I concoct a situation where two arrays were equal when I ran.
Triple equals or double equals we got true.
I would need to do something different I could not define my arrays like this but I would need to do
is instead defined mystery to be based off of numbers.
So instead of mystery let's do let more numbers equals numbers.
So now they have a reference to the same address in memory the same place.
And if I compare them here if I refresh numbers triple equals more numbers.
That is true.
It's also true with double equals.
And if you recall back to the earlier video on reference types.
If we change one of them like more num stop push for more numbers is altered as is numbers they're referring
to the same array in memory.
So when we double or triple equals they are identical.
So what this means is if you're trying to compare arrays if you're trying to see if an array is equal
to another array it's not as straightforward as you might hope it would be because a lot of times you're
not trying to check if an array is the exact same array.
Instead you often want to check if they look the same if they contain the same information.
Here's an example I have a user object.
It has a user name in an email and notifications which is an array.
If I wanted to print something out.
If notifications was empty it would not work to do this.
If user dot notifications triple equals empty array I see students try.
This seems like it should make sense.
It does not work for this same reason empty array triple equals empty array is false.
They look the same but each time I type empty array it's a new place in memory.
They look the same but they are different they have different addresses or different locations in memory.
So this does not work even though notifications is an empty array.
So if I tried to constantly log no new notifications it's not going to work.
Now an empty array is an easy case because we have different strategies.
We could attempt instead instead of checking for equality to an empty array we could say if dot length
is equal to zero we get no new notifications but we could even shorten this more if you remember length
will give us zero in this scenario and zero is a false value so we could say if not user dot notifications
dot length.
If there is no length we get no new notifications.
But now if there is something in here like message it's a notification it doesn't print out.
So the next thing that it's a little trickier is trying to check if an array contains or looks like
another array that isn't empty.
So if I wanted to know if one array contained exactly the numbers 1 2 and 3 in that order.
We've seen this does not work and unfortunately there's not an easy option for us right now until we
talk about loops.
We don't really have a way of checking for array quality equality of values.
What we will need to do is manually compare every element in an array to another array.
So if I wanted to know does notifications look exactly like this where we have message.
And what's another notification.
Let's say and alert if I needed to do that I would have to write code to say is the first element message
is the second element alert.
So we're not there yet but at this point what I want you to understand and hopefully you're getting
it by now is that we cannot easily compare values in arrays.
If we're trying to look for equality all that these operators double and triple equals will do is check
for equality of reference not equality of contents and the exact same thing holds true for objects.
If we make an empty object and we triple equals another empty object they are not the same the object
a one is not equal to the object a one in less they are referring to the same place in memory which
you've seen before.
If I had left data one equals a call on one and then left data two equals data one.
Now they are referring to the same thing in memory.
So we get true when we compare them.
So arrays and objects behave exactly the same way.
In this situation when we're checking for equality.